We added basic routing but well
as I said, we can probably improve the visuals up here.
So let's work on the styling of our links
and for that I'll add a new file to my header component, the header.component.css
file,
I will now go to my typescript definition of the header component and connect it to that css file
with the styles url, with the style urls property here.
This takes an array where you could add multiple style files but I of course only want to point to that
single header.component.css file we just created and now in there, we can style our
anchor tags for this component here.
So let's style the anchor tags,
let's say we want to have no text decoration,
maybe the color should be white and this looks already much better.
Now of course that bullet point should go away,
so I know that for this component, my unordered list should have a list style of none and I also want
to set the padding to 0 and the margin to 0 here.
If we now go back,
this looks better but now messages and new posts directly sit on, well next to each other and it would be
nice to have some spacing in there and have the new post option on the right because later we will also
add options to or an option to go to the sign up area for example and we can easily add such a thing
by adding one extra element here in our toolbar, another span which we don't give any content but
a class which could be spacer,
the name is up to you
but now we can take that class and style that here in our header.css file and the style you should
assign here is flex 11 auto because the toolbar uses flex box by default and this will actually make
sure that the spacer element takes all the available remaining space between the other elements you got
up there and it therefore pushes new post to the right and my messages to the left and now this looks
much better. Now it would also be nice to have some styling on that last button when we hover over it
or when we, well actually are on that links page and we can achieve this by not using a normal anchor
tag like this but also adding the mat button directive to this.
Now this is a material button, if
we go back, you now see it looks a bit different and
now we got a nice hover effect out of the box which is pretty neat,
it's also a bit smaller than my messages which is also great because this is our brand here on the left,
this isn't.
So now it would just be nice to keep some, well highlighted style,
maybe change the color of it when we are on that create page
and to add this feature, we can go back and use another feature of the angular router, we can add the
router link active direct directive here which will actually assign a new css class to that link whenever
it detects that the route
this link leads to is the currently active route. And now
another cool thing is that angular material actually has a couple of helper
css classes you can use, like mat accent.
This will apply the accent color to the underlying element.
So now with that, you see it's highlighted like this
if we are on the page but if we are not, well then it's not highlighted like this.
So this is a nice effect
for now, we might revisit this later but for now we got this working, we can switch between the pages
and we have a visual feedback about which page we're on.
Let's now focus on this create page again and let's make sure that we cannot just create new posts with
it but also edit existing posts.